Progress Report June 2020 (#179)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-jun-2020/index.md

+++
date = "2020-07-01T12:00:00-03:00"
title = "Progress Report June 2020"
author = "Morph & GoldenX86"
forum = 0
+++ 

Hello fellow yuz-ers! We hope you are doing well. Once again we're here to tell you about some of the changes that took place in the project for the last month, affecting both Mainline and Early Access.

<!--more-->

In this episode we have: Lots of fixes, optimizations, and a feature many of you were asking for! And, as always, some hints of what the future will bring.

## Bug fixes and improvements

> How do we start? With [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) fixing another Kirby issue, of course! [Reserving 4 image bindings](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4092) in the fragment stage, instead of just one before. This fixes several shader compilation errors that affected both `GLSL` and `GLASM` in `Kirby Star Allies.` Results below, Poyo!

Reviewer: I like it.

{{< imgs
    "./acnh.mp4| Now that doesn't look nice, does it? (Animal Crossing: New Horizons)"
  >}}
  
A very elusive bug that has been tormenting us for a while are triangle glitches that appear in `Super Mario Odyssey`. [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) managed to solve it in OpenGL on Nvidia GPUs by using the `NV_vertex_buffer_unified_memory` extension. On OpenGL, this fix is only available on Nvidia, and currently it is disabled on Turing based GPUs (GTX 1600 and RTX 2000 series), due to both a driver and a yuzu bug.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Dark and glitchy (Super Mario Odyssey)"
    "./smo-bug.png"
    "./smo-fix.png"
  >}}

We are working on an [universal implementation on Vulkan](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4150) that requires  the `VK_EXT_extended_dynamic_state` extension, which is not available on all GPU vendors' drivers yet. At the time of this writing, only the Intel Mesa `ANV` Linux driver and the latest Nvidia Vulkan Beta driver support it.

> A rare bug was affecting `Xenoblade Chronicles 2`, causing fantastic vertex explosions on time of the day transitions. [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) managed to find the cause and by [improving the shader cache](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4194) a bit, managed to solve the issue.

Reviewer: Ok.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Exactly the same spot (Xenoblade Chronicles 2)"
    "./xc2-bug.png"
    "./xc2-fix.png"
  >}}
  
The Shark always gets a mention. By [implementing RendererInfo](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4080) in yuzu's audio emulation, [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377) solved the softlocks affecting `Animal Crossing: New Horizons` in the credits sequence and `The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening` in several areas of the game. Now you can enjoy both games without the fear of getting stuck, and hear some extra sound effects too!

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Nothing to report! (Animal Crossing: New Horizons & The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening)"
    "./acnh-credits.png"
    "./zla-mermaid.png"
  >}}

> Additionally, also thanks to [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), `Animal Crossing: New Horizons` no longer needs the crash fix patch we were distributing in our compatibility article of the game. This was done by [improving the emulation of the Tegra X1 GPU drivers](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4070). As a bonus, this also fixed T-posing on the later updates in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`!

Reviewer 2: He's already mentioned above
```suggestion
Additionally, `Animal Crossing: New Horizons` no longer needs the crash fix patch we were distributing in our compatibility article of the game. This was done by [improving the emulation of the Tegra X1 GPU drivers](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4070). As a bonus, this also fixed T-posing on the later updates in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`!
```

Reviewer: I could change it to "the shark".

Not all games are native to the Nintendo Switch, with a portion of its library consisting of ported games from other consoles or PC. Until now, PC game ports that were originally developed for `Direct3D` and ran perfectly fine on NVN failed to run on yuzu. [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) found a [way to translate this behavior](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4049) to yuzu's OpenGL and Vulkan implementations, resulting in tons of western games going in game.

{{< imgs
    "./bioshock.png| Would you kindly? (BioShock Remastered)"
  >}}
  

> By implementing a [missing texture format](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4005), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) fixed black glitches in `Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition`.

Reviewer 2: Just like in https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/pull/176 I think "black glitches" isn't descriptive enough

Reviewer: Changed.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "This is the Monado's power!"
    "./xcde_before.png"
    "./xcde_after.png"
  >}}
   
{{< single-title-imgs
    "(Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition)"
    "./xcde_before2.png"
    "./xcde_after2.png"
  >}}
  

> Intel used to have a bug in their OpenGL driver causing many games using compute shaders to crash or render effects incorrectly, forcing us to disable `Compute Shaders` for any supported Intel GPU and by doing so, affecting many games. One game of note is `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`, where compute shaders are used to render character model animations and without them, character models will be in a `T-pose`.

Reviewer 2: I think on/for are interchangeable in this case
```suggestion
Intel used to have a bug in their OpenGL driver causing many games using 'Compute Shaders' to crash or render effects incorrectly, forcing us to disable them on any supported Intel GPU and, by doing so, affecting many games. One game of note is `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`, where compute shaders are used to render character model animations and without them, character models will be in a `T-pose`.
```

Additionally, Intel's OpenGL `Geometry Shader` implementation, in contrast to AMD's and NVIDIA's one, is too rigorous - following the official OpenGL specification to a T due to the lack of an OpenGL extension called `GL_ARB_shader_viewport_layer_array`. This forces us to re-evaluate yuzu's implementation of it.

By [re-enabling Compute Shaders](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4025) and [changing the way yuzu handles Geometry Shaders](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4031), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) closed a big box of issues that previously affected only our Intel GPU users.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Gone are the rainbows on Intel (Octopath Traveler)"
    "./octopath-before.png"
    "./octopath-fixed.png"
  >}}
  
&nbsp;
   
{{< single-title-imgs
    "No more T-posing (Super Smash Bros Ultimate)"
    "./ssbu-tpose.png"
    "./ssbu-fixed.png"
  >}}

> [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) [stubbed an input instruction](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4032) allowing `Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition` to go in-game.

Reviewer 2: (I'd rather not being here at all, especially since this is a stub, but) I'd add that "new Minecraft" doesn't work, only the old one, which was only available for a limited period of time
From my testing, "new" Minecraft needs many of BSD's functions implemented to work as it uses sockets a lot and stubbing those instructions isn't going to make it work unfortunately

Reviewer: Do you want me to remove it?

Reviewer 2: It's fine, but don't make it sound like a major thing plz

{{< imgs
    "./minecraft.png| Don't dig too deep! (Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition)"
  >}}
  

> Not all games have to be in 3D. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) [replaced the default texture filtering behaviour](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4081) to achieve crisp graphics on 2D games like `Undertale`.

Reviewer 3: Change `on 2D` to `in 2D`

> Not everything has to be 3D games. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) [replaced the default texture filtering behaviour](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4081) to achieve crisp graphics on 2D games like `Undertale`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not all games have to be in 3D. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) [replaced the default texture filtering behaviour](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4081) to achieve crisp graphics on 2D games like `Undertale`.
```

Reviewer: Nice.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Crisp, just the way I like it"
    "./undertale-before.png"
    "./undertale-after.png"
  >}}
  
Last on our bug fixes section. Old AMD GPUs from 2012 lack the OpenGL `GL_EXT_texture_shadow_lod` extension, leading to shaders that failed to build in `The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild`. As described [here](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SPIRV-Cross/issues/207), by using the [textureGrad function](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4129), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) achieved similar results, improving compatibility with such old devices.

## Vulkan improvements

> `OCTOPATH TRAVELER` got some Vulkan love thanks to [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp). By implementing a [missing image format](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4033) and [storage texels and atomic image operations](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4034) the game can now reach in-game status in Vulkan, and with some very beautiful visuals!

Reviewer 2: Not sure about "graphics"
```suggestion
`OCTOPATH TRAVELER` got some Vulkan love thanks to [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp). By implementing a [missing image format](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4033) and [storage texels and atomic image operations](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4034), the game can now reach the in-game status in Vulkan, and with some very beautiful graphics!
```

{{< imgs
    "./octopath.png| This is how nostalgia makes us remember the SNES era (OCTOPATH TRAVELER)"
  >}}

[Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) also worked on [multiple](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4110) [performance](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4111) optimizations for the Vulkan API. This results in lower frametimes and higher framerates on average.

## User Interface changes

> An old misconception our users have with yuzu was the `Internal Resolution` combobox in the graphics settings. This was carried over from [Citra's](https://citra-emu.org/) UI, but it wasn't coded to do anything in yuzu. So, lots of users set it up at higher values expecting an image quality increase that never happened. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) decided it was time to [remove it for good](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3966), and so he did.

Reviewer 2: QComboBox is what Qt calls it, but I'm not sure that is an English word
Also, it was used in the september patreon release, so I'd add a "mention" about that here
```suggestion
An old misconception our users had with yuzu had to do with the `Internal Resolution` setting in the graphics settings. This was carried over from [Citra's](https://citra-emu.org/) UI, but it wasn't coded to do anything in yuzu. So, lots of users set it up at higher values expecting an image quality increase that could never happen. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) decided it was time to [remove it for good](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3966), and so he did.
```

Reviewer: The more we mention the scaler, the more they insist on it, and Rodrigo is on more important stuff that that for now.

> An old misconception our users had with yuzu had to do with the `Internal Resolution` setting in the graphics settings. This was carried over from [Citra's](https://citra-emu.org/) UI, but it wasn't coded to do anything in yuzu. So, lots of users set it up at higher values expecting an image quality increase that could never happen. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) decided it was time to [remove it for good](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3966), and so he did.

Reviewer 3: Change ``` `Internal Resolution` setting``` to ``` `Internal Resolution` option```

{{< imgs
    "./res-scaler-removed.png| Until we meet again, Internal Resolution!"
  >}}

> [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) added [Open Mods](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4136) [FAQ and Quickstart](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4166) shortcuts on yuzu's interface, a great way to help people just starting to use the emulator, you just need to click on Help!

Reviewer 2: These changes were suggested by some users, maybe add that they were "requests" (?)

Reviewer: Done.

> Thanks to users requesting it, [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) added [Open Mods](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4136) [FAQ and Quickstart](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4166) shortcuts on yuzu's interface, a great way to help people just starting to use the emulator, you just need to click on Help!

Reviewer 3: Change `shortcuts on` to `shortcuts to`

> Thanks to users requesting it, [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) added [Open Mods](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4136) [FAQ and Quickstart](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4166) shortcuts on yuzu's interface, a great way to help people just starting to use the emulator, you just need to click on Help!

Reviewer 3: Replace comma after `interface` with a period.

> Thanks to users requesting it, [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) added [Open Mods](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4136) [FAQ and Quickstart](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4166) shortcuts on yuzu's interface, a great way to help people just starting to use the emulator, you just need to click on Help!

Reviewer 3: Change `a great way to help people just starting to use the emulator, you just need to click on Help!`

to

```This is a great way for users to find helpful information on how to use the emulator — you just need to click on `Help`!```

{{< imgs
    "./volca-ui.png| Just an easier way. Thanks Volca!"
  >}}
  

> On the other hand, [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan) gives us a [mute audio hotkey!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4164). Additionally, Kewlan also fixed a bug with the [fullscreen hotkey](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4182) where if you changed it, the old default one would still work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the other hand, [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan) gave us a [mute audio hotkey!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4164). Additionally, Kewlan also fixed a bug with the [fullscreen hotkey](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4182) where, if you changed it, the old "default" one would still work.
```

> On the other hand, [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan) gave us a [mute audio hotkey!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4164). Additionally, Kewlan also fixed a bug with the [fullscreen hotkey](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4182) where, if you changed it, the old "default" one would still work.

Reviewer 3: "On the other hand" is used to present opposing points, so it's not really appropriate here.

I'd say `Continuing with UI changes, [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan) added a [mute audio hotkey](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4164). They also fixed a bug with the [fullscreen hotkey](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4182), where the default hotkey would still function even when changed.`

## Dreams and Reality

> Project Maribel Hearn is out, and it is in Mainline too! Native 32 bit Switch games start to work, with some of them even being fully playable! This means games like `New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe` and `Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker` work almost perfectly fine and with great performance, while games like `Mario Kart 8 Deluxe` still need more work. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Project Maribel Hearn is out, and it is in Mainline too! Native 32 bit Switch games start to work, with some of them even being fully playable! This means that games like `New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe` and `Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker` work almost perfectly and with great performance, while games like `Mario Kart 8 Deluxe` still need more work. 
```

> Project Maribel Hearn is out, and it is in Mainline too! Native 32 bit Switch games start to work, with some of them even being fully playable! This means that games like `New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe` and `Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker` work almost perfectly and with great performance, while games like `Mario Kart 8 Deluxe` still need more work. 

Reviewer 3: The full title is `Project Maribel Hearn`? Also, I believe we've typically put "projects" in code tags, so we may want to be consistent.

> Project Maribel Hearn is out, and it is in Mainline too! Native 32 bit Switch games start to work, with some of them even being fully playable! This means that games like `New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe` and `Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker` work almost perfectly and with great performance, while games like `Mario Kart 8 Deluxe` still need more work. 

Reviewer 3: I'd change `Native 32 bit Switch games start to work,` to `Native 32-bit Switch games are now starting to work`

> This was a very requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed on [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including but not limited to [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache, they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are too technical to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This has been a very requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed on [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including, but not limited to, [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache: they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are "too technical" to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.
```

> This has been a very requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed on [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including, but not limited to, [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache: they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are "too technical" to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.

Reviewer 3: Change `very requested` to `highly requested`

> This has been a very requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed on [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including, but not limited to, [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache: they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are "too technical" to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.

Reviewer 3: Change `on Dynarmic` to `in Dynarmic`

> This has been a very requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed on [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including, but not limited to, [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache: they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are "too technical" to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.

Reviewer 3: Replace the comma after `not limited to` with a colon as the text following is a list.

> You may not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may have noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support both 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend, by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32` and `WaitSynchronization32`.
```

> You may not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

Reviewer 3: Add `have` after `not`

> You may not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

Reviewer 3: Add dashes between the all the `32 bit` and `64 bit` comments

> You may not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

Reviewer 3: Change `on yuzu` to `in yuzu`

> You may not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32 bit support on yuzu by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32 bit and 64 bit JIT backends, implementing a 32 bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32 bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

Reviewer 3: This section would be better if broken up into two sentences. Add a period after `yuzu` and then start the next sentence with `They accomplished this by`

> While rewriting the kernel for Prometheus, [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) and [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) saw an excellent opportunity to include support for 32 bit, ARMv7 CPU instructions and services. With this spark of motivation, they worked with [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage) and [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash) to make the dreams of 32 bit a reality. By ramping up the implementation of various ARMv7 instructions such as `VPADD`, `VCVT` and `VSHL` on Dynarmic, and 32 bit SVCs such as `CreateTransferMemory32`, `MapSharedMemory32` and `CreateThread32` on yuzu. There are many other ARMv7 instructions and SVCs that we cannot cover here, but the culmination of this work allowed us to get the very first 32 bit games up and running! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While rewriting the kernel for Prometheus, [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) and [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) saw an excellent opportunity to include support for 32 bit, ARMv7 CPU instructions and services. With this spark of motivation, they worked with [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage) and [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash) to make the dreams of 32 bit a reality, by ramping up the implementation of various ARMv7 instructions such as `VPADD`, `VCVT` and `VSHL` on Dynarmic, and implementing 32 bit SVCs such as `CreateTransferMemory32`, `MapSharedMemory32` and `CreateThread32` on yuzu. There are many other ARMv7 instructions and SVCs that we cannot cover here, but the culmination of this work allowed us to get the very first 32 bit games up and running! 
```

> While rewriting the kernel for Prometheus, [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) and [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) saw an excellent opportunity to include support for 32 bit, ARMv7 CPU instructions and services. With this spark of motivation, they worked with [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage) and [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash) to make the dreams of 32 bit a reality. By ramping up the implementation of various ARMv7 instructions such as `VPADD`, `VCVT` and `VSHL` on Dynarmic, and 32 bit SVCs such as `CreateTransferMemory32`, `MapSharedMemory32` and `CreateThread32` on yuzu. There are many other ARMv7 instructions and SVCs that we cannot cover here, but the culmination of this work allowed us to get the very first 32 bit games up and running! 

Reviewer 3: Remove the comma after `32 bit`

> While rewriting the kernel for Prometheus, [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) and [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) saw an excellent opportunity to include support for 32 bit, ARMv7 CPU instructions and services. With this spark of motivation, they worked with [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage) and [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash) to make the dreams of 32 bit a reality. By ramping up the implementation of various ARMv7 instructions such as `VPADD`, `VCVT` and `VSHL` on Dynarmic, and 32 bit SVCs such as `CreateTransferMemory32`, `MapSharedMemory32` and `CreateThread32` on yuzu. There are many other ARMv7 instructions and SVCs that we cannot cover here, but the culmination of this work allowed us to get the very first 32 bit games up and running! 

Reviewer 3: Change `the dreams of 32 bit a reality.` to `the dream of 32-bit support a reality, `

make `By ramping` lowercase

Add comma after `VCVT`

Change `on Dynarmic` to `in Dynarmic`

Add comma after `MapSharedMemory32`

Change `on yuzu` to `in yuzu`

{{< imgs

>     "./toad.png| Good performance even on low end hardware!"

Reviewer 3: Change `low end` to `low-end`

  >}}

Additionally, the merge of this work into the Master branch also means that Multicore support is now working in Mainline! Thanks [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) for all your hard work on this! Please refer to our previous [May progress report](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2020/) and the dedicated [Project Prometheus article](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-prometheus/) to read more about this crucial new feature.

## Future projects

> With Multicore finally on Master, some "in the oven" ideas can start to take shape. Project Apollo is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Multicore finally on Master, some of the ideas we have "in the oven" can start to take shape. Project Apollo is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, again.
```

> With Multicore finally on Master, some of the ideas we have "in the oven" can start to take shape. Project Apollo is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, again.

Reviewer 3: Change `on Master` to `in Master`

> With Multicore finally on Master, some of the ideas we have "in the oven" can start to take shape. Project Apollo is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, again.

Reviewer 3: Same comment about `Project Maribel Hearn` applies to `Project Apollo`

> With Multicore finally on Master, some of the ideas we have "in the oven" can start to take shape. Project Apollo is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, again.

Reviewer 3: Let's italicize `again` to add emphasis

> That’s all for now, folks! We hope to see you in the next July progress report!

Reviewer 3: Change `in the next` to `in our`

{{< imgs
    "./bioshock.png| Would you kindly? (BioShock Remastered)"
  >}}
  
By implementing a [missing texture format](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4005), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp) fixed dark surface glitches that appear in `Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition`.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "This is the Monado's power!"
    "./xcde_before.png"
    "./xcde_after.png"
  >}}
   
{{< single-title-imgs
    "(Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition)"
    "./xcde_before2.png"
    "./xcde_after2.png"
  >}}
  
Intel used to have a bug in their OpenGL driver causing many games using `Compute Shaders` to crash or render effects incorrectly. This forced us to disable them on any supported Intel GPU, which introduced adverse effects in many games. One game of note is `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`, wherein compute shaders are used to render character model animations and without them, character models will be in a `T-pose`.

> Additionally, Intel's OpenGL `Geometry Shader` implementation (in contrast to AMD's and Nvidia's one) is too rigorous, as it follows the official OpenGL specification to a T, therefore lacking an OpenGL extension called `GL_ARB_shader_viewport_layer_array`. This forces us to re-evaluate yuzu's implementation of it.

Reviewer 3: Replace paragraph with ```Additionally, Intel's OpenGL `Geometry Shader` implementation (unlike AMD's and Nvidia's one) lacks an OpenGL extension called `GL_ARB_shader_viewport_layer_array`. This forces us to re-evaluate yuzu's implementation of it.```

    "./xcde_after2.png"
  >}}
  
Intel used to have a bug in their OpenGL driver causing many games using `Compute Shaders` to crash or render effects incorrectly. This forced us to disable them on any supported Intel GPU, which introduced adverse effects in many games. One game of note is `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`, wherein compute shaders are used to render character model animations and without them, character models will be in a `T-pose`.

> Additionally, Intel's OpenGL `Geometry Shader` implementation (in contrast to AMD's and Nvidia's one) is too rigorous, as it follows the official OpenGL specification to a T, therefore lacking an OpenGL extension called `GL_ARB_shader_viewport_layer_array`. This forces us to re-evaluate yuzu's implementation of it.

Author: Here it was intended to mean that it lacks an extension that enables additional functionality. So Intel is forced to follow what the spec suggests without this functionality.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the insight

## User Interface changes

An old misconception our users had with yuzu had to do with the `Internal Resolution` option in the graphics settings. This was carried over from [Citra's](https://citra-emu.org/) UI, but it wasn't coded to do anything in yuzu. So, lots of users set it up at higher values expecting an image quality increase that could never happen. [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) decided it was time to [remove it for good](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3966), and so he did.

{{< imgs
    "./res-scaler-removed.png| Until we meet again, Internal Resolution!"
  >}}

> Thanks to users requesting it, [Volca](https://github.com/VolcaEM) added [Open Mods](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4136), [FAQ and Quickstart](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/4166) shortcuts to yuzu's interface. This is a great way for users to find helpful information on how to use the emulator — you just need to click on `Help`!

Reviewer 3: Add comma after `FAQ`

This has been a highly requested feature for a very long time, but implementing it required a major rewrite of the kernel, and official support for ARMv7 was needed in [Dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic), our ARM JIT recompiler. This took a tremendous amount of work from several of our developers, including, but not limited to: [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage), [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash), [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27), [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei), [Rodrigo](https://github.com/ReinUsesLisp), [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377), [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984), and many others. Special mention goes to Merry and Lioncache: they are the soul of this project, and without them we couldn't have even started it. Several of their pull requests are "too technical" to be included in the progress reports, but it should be known that Merry and Lioncache are the main code contributors at the heart of yuzu.

> You may not not noticed that four months ago, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi) laid down the [initial framework](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/3478) towards 32-bit support in yuzu.

Reviewer 3: You wrote `You may not not noticed` instead of `You may not have noticed`

They accomplished this by refactoring the ARM interface to support 32-bit and 64-bit JIT backends, implementing a 32-bit ARM interface based on Citra's ARMv6 dynarmic backend by adding CP15 coprocessor support, and implementing several 32-bit SVCs such as `GetThreadPriority32`, `WaitSynchronization32`, and many more.

> While rewriting the kernel for Prometheus, [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) and [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) saw an excellent opportunity to include support for 32 bit ARMv7 CPU instructions and services. With this spark of motivation, they worked with [Merry](https://github.com/MerryMage) and [Lioncache](https://github.com/lioncash) to make the dream of 32-bit support a reality, by ramping up the implementation of various ARMv7 instructions such as `VPADD`, `VCVT`,  and `VSHL` in Dynarmic, and 32-bit SVCs such as `CreateTransferMemory32`, `MapSharedMemory32`, and `CreateThread32` in yuzu. There are many other ARMv7 instructions and SVCs that we cannot cover here, but the culmination of this work allowed us to get the very first 32-bit games up and running! 

Reviewer 3: Change `32 bit ARMv7` to `32-bit ARMv7`

{{< imgs
    "./toad.png| Good performance even on low-end hardware!"
  >}}

Additionally, the merge of this work into the Master branch also means that Multicore support is now working in Mainline! Thanks [Blinkhawk](https://github.com/FernandoS27) for all your hard work on this! Please refer to our previous [May progress report](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2020/) and the dedicated [Project Prometheus article](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-prometheus/) to read more about this crucial new feature.

## Future projects

With Multicore finally in Master, some of the ideas we have "in the oven" can start to take shape. `Project Apollo` is starting to be nice and sound. And finally, I've heard [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) is up to something, *again*.

> That’s all for now, folks! We hope to see you in our next July progress report!

Reviewer 3: Remove `next` before `July`
